{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red203\green209\blue214;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c83529\c85490\c87059;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh16580\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Hi Julien,
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 No worries. My workflow is very uneven, and all of a sudden, I spent several days on the Neural Network. I fully understand you are not in sync
\fs24  
\f1\fs28 \uc0\u55357 \u56842 
\f0 . It is also good for me to summarize where I am, so the emails have that function as well.
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 The outcome with the NN rules is slightly disappointing. One issue is that NN is deterministic, so if a data set has several versions of the same input data, the outcome can only be one (which is not always the case in music). This could be slightly solved by increasing the input data length, but in general I found the smaller dataset more useful. I recognize that my knowledge in neural networks is very limited. I end up with the conclusion that NN is good for classification of data. If you try to answer \'93correct\'94 vs. \'93wrong\'94 it becomes more tricky, since you have to define wrong in your dataset (everything that was not defined as correct is not accurate enough).
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 I am now back to working on the new engine now, and I am fixing a bug I found. I have an idea for my piece, where I want to use live data as input to the constraint engine, and I need to interrupt the search when data arrives to include in a modified search. The new engine should allow for this, the way we implemented the possibility to save the state of the engine and restart from where it stopped. I will probably update the github later today with the bug fix.
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \'d6rjan}